[New Product] Added Devuan GNU+Linux (#1749)
captn3m0/endoflife.date: products/devuan.md

---
permalink: /devuan
title: Devuan
versionCommand: cat /etc/os-release
category: os
releasePolicyLink: https://www.devuan.org/os/releases
activeSupportColumn: false
releaseColumn: true
releaseDateColumn: true
releaseLabel: "__RELEASE_CYCLE__ (__CODENAME__)"
purls:
-   purl: pkg:os/devuan
auto:
-   distrowatch: devuan

>     regex: '^Distribution Release: Devuan GNU+Linux (?P<major>\d)\.(?P<minor>\d)\.(?P<patch>\d)$'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    regex: '^Distribution Release: Devuan GNU\+Linux (?P<major>\d)\.(?P<minor>\d)(?:\.(?P<patch>\d))?$'
```

The `patch` part is optional

https://regex101.com/r/wso3ge/1

releases:
-   releaseCycle: "4"
    codename: "Chimaera"
    eol: 2026-08-15
    latest: "4.0"
    lts: 2024-07-01
    link: https://www.devuan.org/os/announce/chimaera-release-announce-2021-10-14
    releaseDate: 2021-10-14
    latestReleaseDate: 2021-10-14
    discontinued: false
-   releaseCycle: "3"
    codename: "Beowulf"
    eol: 2024-06-01
    latest: "3.1.0"
    link: https://www.devuan.org/os/announce/beowulf-point-release-announce-021421
    lts: 2022-07-01
    releaseDate: 2020-06-01
    latestReleaseDate: 2021-02-15
    discontinued: false
-   releaseCycle: "2"
    codename: "ASCII"
    eol: 2022-06-30
    lts: 2020-06-06
    latest: "2.1"
    link: https://www.devuan.org/os/announce/ascii-point-release-announce-112119
    releaseDate: 2018-06-08
    latestReleaseDate: 2019-11-25
    discontinued: false
-   releaseCycle: "1"
    codename: "Jessie"
    eol: 2020-06-30
    lts: 2018-06-17
    latest: "1.0.0"
    link: https://www.devuan.org/os/announce/stable-jessie-announce-052517.html
    releaseDate: 2017-05-25
    latestReleaseDate: 2017-05-25
    discontinued: true

---

> > [Devuan GNU+Linux](https://www.devuan.org/) is a [fork of Debian without systemd](https://www.devuan.org/os/announce/) that allows users to reclaim control over their system by avoiding unnecessary entanglements???  and ensuring [Init Freedom](https://www.devuan.org/os/init-freedom).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> [Devuan GNU+Linux](https://www.devuan.org/) is a [fork of Debian without systemd](https://www.devuan.org/os/announce/) to support [Init Freedom](https://www.devuan.org/os/init-freedom).
```

The Init Freedom link is good enough.

> At any given time, there is one stable release of Devuan, where package versions stay relatively static, only receiving security patches.  Changes beyond security patches such as package version bumps often occur at point releases.  Devuan makes stable releases when they are ready, not on a fixed schedule.  This roughly follows the [Debian](http://endoflife.date/debian) release cadence.  When a new stable version is released, the previous stable versions continue to [maintained](https://www.devuan.org/os/releases) until those releases are [archived](https://www.devuan.org/os/releases#archive).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At any given time, there is one stable release of Devuan, where package versions stay relatively static, only receiving security patches.  Changes beyond security patches such as package version bumps often occur at point releases.  Devuan makes stable releases when they are ready, not on a fixed schedule.  This roughly follows the [Debian](/debian) release cadence.  When a new stable version is released, the previous stable versions continue to [maintained](https://www.devuan.org/os/releases) until those releases are [archived](https://www.devuan.org/os/releases#archive).
```

Internal links should be relative.
